---
title: "Schedule"
bg: '#4259f4'
color: white
fa-icon: pencil-square-o
---

## Detailed Schedule
Homework will be assigned on a rolling basis, dependent upon how much we cover in class. I will write the homework assignment due the following class on the board at the end of any given class and update the course website with the assignment as we go.

Each entry below lists the topic of discussion for that day in class. You should read the chapter that will be discussed on any given day in advance of the class meeting. E.g., by the time class meets on Friday, January 25, you should have already read through Chapter 17.

### Week 1

**Wednesday, January 23**  
Course overview.  
Review of Introduction to Latin 1 (Chapters 1-16 of Shelmerdine).  

**Friday, January 25**  
Chapter 17: Participles (Tenses, Uses, Ablative Absolute).  

### Week 2

**Monday, January 28**  
Chapter 17 continued.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 136.odds, 137, 139.evens.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10HPCpXeEssFLcdSnnLgHDudnkYILBfhG/view?usp=sharing)

**Wednesday, January 30**  
***Quiz #1:*** Chapter 17.  
Chapter 18: Dependent Clauses (Noun Use: Relative Clause); Interrogative Pronoun: *quis, quid*; Interrogative Adjective: *quī, quae, quod*; Intensive Pronouns: *īdem, ipse*.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 140.odds, 141, 142.evens.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1077X6fp-tgCAYon9Akdn6XozsTltXvyV/view?usp=sharing)

**Friday, February 1**  
Chapter 18 continued.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 144, 145, 146, 147.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10EIWlhoBZE80K41c3M26PWQxRgo5wdtk/view?usp=sharing)

### Week 3

**Monday, February 4**  
***Quiz #2:*** Chapter 18.  
Chapter 19: Infinitive Forms (Perfect Active, Future Active, Review of all); Noun Clause: Indirect Statement; Tenses of the Infinitive in Indirect Statement.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 148.odds, 149.evens, Practice Sentences (p. 171) odds.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10Gu2AN4VDZCc5kZGX7QUSk_Fk0g52Cov/view?usp=sharing)

**Wednesday, February 6**  
Chapter 19 continued.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 151, 152; Workbook - Chapter 19, section 91, 1-15 odds.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AcVrf8KlGQBmpck076zDEThXIMZHwVDF/view?usp=sharing)

**Friday, February 8**  
***Quiz #3:*** Chapter 19.  
Chapter 20: Irregular Verbs (*volō, nōlō, mālō*); Negative Commands with *nōlō*; Noun Clause: Objective Infinitive.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 154.odds, Reading 25 (p. 178).](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AZlWfP_hJ1OPvcNHPTMEBjThqzSdFs9J/view?usp=sharing)  
- [Video breakdown of Reading 25.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iJ8Sg9BBz8kBwUOgIapMWtWTPshN7eM3/view?usp=sharing)

### Week 4

**Monday, February 11**  
***Quiz #4:*** Chapter 20.  
Chapter 21: Comparison of Adjectives (Declension of Comparatives, Irregular Comparison); Comparison with *quam* and Ablative of Comparison; Indefinite Pronoun: *quīdam, quaedam, quoddam*  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 158.odds, 160.evens, Practice Sentences (p. 187, notes/vocab on p. 188) 1-4, 8.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1h0Zud5EqObMLAyxI69S7L5RnTfwXP0ef/view?usp=sharing)

**Wednesday, February 13**  
Chapter 21 continued.  
**Homework due**: [Ex. 162, ex. 163.odds; Workbook Chp. 21, Section 98](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G98vqsMnggM8mNgM5nc2pqDQaD-QUfvn/view?usp=sharing)

**Friday, February 15**  
***Quiz #5:*** Chapter 21.  
Review: Chapters 17-21.  
**Homework due**: [Reading 29 (p. 194) (as far as you can get)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q7qTtRer4buTpFD8Aj_boqjLYgG2nP8F/view?usp=sharing)

### Week 5

**Monday, February 18**  
***Midterm #1: Chapters 17-21.***  
**Study packet**: Link [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AmppdNCSJn-eEKSEe77Sb0zGV0YUgZ-j/view?usp=sharing).

**Wednesday, February 20**  
Midterm #1 Post-Mortem and Check Up from the Neck Up.  
Chapter 22: Comparison of Adverbs; More on *quam*; Deponent Verbs (Special Intransitive: Deponent Verbs used with an Ablative Object)

**Friday, February 22**  
Chapter 22 continued.

### Week 6

**Monday, February 25**  
***Quiz #6:*** Chapter 22.  
Chapter 23: Irregular Verbs (*eō, īre, iī/īvī, itūrus,* to go; compounds of *eō*; *ferō, ferre, tulī, lātus,* to carry, bear; compounds of *ferō*); *vīs, vīs,* f.

**Wednesday, February 27**  
***Quiz #7:*** Chapters 23.  
Chapter 24: Present Active / Passive Subjunctive; Present Subjunctive of *sum, possum,* and *volō*; Independent Uses of the Subjunctive: Exhortation/Command, Wish, Doubt, Possibility.

**Friday, March 1**  
Chapter 24 continued.

***SPRING BREAK: March 2 through March 10***  
Devote at least 15-30 minutes a day to practicing Latin! Write paradigms, translate exercises, whatever you need to do to return from Spring Break ready to go!


### Week 7

**Monday, March 11**  
***Quiz #8:*** Chapter 24.  
Chapter 25: Imperfect Active / Passive Subjunctive; Imperfect Subjunctive of *sum, possum,* and *volō*; Dependent Uses of the Subjunctive: Adverbial Clauses (Purpose, Result)

**Wednesday, March 13**  
Chapter 25 continued.

**Friday, March 15**  
***Quiz #9:*** Chapter 25.  
Chapter 26: Perfect and Pluperfect Active Subjunctive; Perfect and Pluperfect Subjunctive of *sum* and *possum*; Tenses in Independent Uses of the Subjunctive; Tenses in Dependent Uses of the Subjunctive: Sequence of Tenses; Dependent Uses of the Subjunctive: Adverbial Clauses (Circumstance, Cause, Concession; Time, with anticipation)

### Week 8

**Monday, March 18**  
Chapter 26 continued.

**Wednesday, March 20**  
***Quiz #10:*** Chapter 26.  
Review: Chapters 22-26.

**Friday, March 22**  
***Midterm #2: Chapters 22-26.***

### Week 9

**Monday, March 25**  
Midterm #2 Post-Mortem and Check Up from the Neck Up.  
Chapter 27: Perfect and Pluperfect Passive Subjunctive; Adverbial Clauses: Conditions (Simple conditions, Subjunctive conditions)

**Wednesday, March 27**  
Chapter 27 continued.

**Friday, March 29**  
***Quiz #11:*** Chapter 27.  
Chapter 28: Irregular verb: *fīō, fierī, factus sum*; Dependent Uses of the Subjunctive: Noun Clauses (Noun Result, Indirect Question, Indirect Command, Clauses of Fearing)

### Week 10

**Monday, April 1**  
Chapter 28 continued.

**Wednesday, April 3**  
***Quiz #12:*** Chapter 28.  
Chapter 29: The Gerund; The Gerundive; Passive Periphrastic; Dative of Agent.

**Friday, April 5**  
Chapter 29 continued.

### Week 11

**Monday, April 8**  
***Quiz #13:*** Chapter 29.  
Vergil’s *Aeneid*: Basics and Context of Book 2

**Wednesday, April 10**  
Vergil's *Aeneid* 2

**Friday, April 12**  
Vergil's *Aeneid* 2

### Week 12

**Monday, April 15**  
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

**Wednesday, April 17**  
***Quiz #14:*** Vergil's *Aeneid* 2.  
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

***EASTER BREAK: April 18 through April 22***  
Once again, devote at least 15-30 minutes a day to practicing Latin! Write paradigms, translate exercises, whatever you need to do to return from Easter Break ready to go!


### Week 13

**Wednesday, April 24**  
NO CLASS (Academic Conference)

**Friday, April 26**    
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

### Week 14

**Monday, April 29**  
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

**Wednesday, May 1**  
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

**Friday, May 3**  
Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2

### Week 15

**Monday, May 6**  
***Quiz #15:*** Vergil’s *Aeneid* 2.  
Introduction to Latin Retrospective

**STUDY PERIOD: May 7 through May 8**  
**EXAM PERIOD: May 9 through May 15**  

***Final exam: Date TBD.***
